# BinaryClassificationNeuralNetwork

The Neural network in this project is designed to solve the binary classification problem. Given a set of points in $\mathbf{R}^2$, each point is either a blue cross or a red circle, represented by a 1 or -1. The network is trained on some initial data of this description, allowing it to then predict the classification of any other arbitrary point in $\mathbf{R}^2$. The network does this by creating a function of the plane that divides sections of the plane into areas in which a data point is a blue cross and areas in which a data point is a red circle.

To allow matrix and vector equations to be written intuitively throughout the code, two classes named MVector and MMatrix are created within separate header files to be imported into the code. Each contain various methods and operator overloads to make vector and matrix algebra easier throughout the code. The MVector class has multiple constructors that allow an MVector to be created in a number of ways, such as with no particular size or values, or with specified size and or values. Similarly The MMatrix class has constructors which allow it to be created with a specific number of rows and columns or with no specific amount of each. The header files for each of these objects then overload some common operations needed for each.


# Methodology of Use

In the Main Function the Test function is ran, this tests the various functions that implement the training algorithm against values calculated by hand.

Three sets of training data are defined on line 192, 200 and 215 of the code. To specify which training data to use change line 792 of the code to the correct function associtated with that training data e.g GetTestData(x,y), GetCheckerboardData(x,y) or GetSpiralData(x,y).

Various parameters associated with the training algorithm can then be set as arguments to the Train function on line 801, refer to the comments above this calling of the function to understand which arguments corespond to which paratmeter.

When ran, the program outputs two text files, one file coresponding to coordinates and values of the training data and one file coresponding to the contour plot generated by the training algorithm to partition the areas coresponding to each of the two classifications of points. These can then be plotted with any suitable plotting software such as Matlab.
